Good afternoon.
Welcome to Customizing the
Appearance of UIKit Controls.
My name is Chris Parker.
I'm an iOS Frameworks Engineer.
I work on UIKit.
And we're going to spend the next hour or
so talking about all the stuff that we've
added to iOS 5 that allows you to get
your custom look into your applications.
So our standard look is
pretty straightforward,
right?
This is mail on the iPhone.
We've got that sort of blue-gray
look at the top for the
navigation bars and the toolbars.
That color scheme is pushed throughout
the application as you navigate using
push and pop and view controllers.
The toolbar buttons are
all that white etched look.
And, you know,
it's a very straightforward,
it's a very clean, basic look.
And it's a good starting point
for a lot of applications.
But now that we've seen so many
applications on the store and all of the
really custom artwork things that people
are doing to support their features and
to really distinguish your applications,
it's clear that we've needed a little
more to be able to give you guys a
lot more help in customizing UIKit.
The iPad has a very silver look to it,
right?
The toolbars and nav bars
are all that gray look.
All the gray tint color is
pushed through it as well.
Same thing.
As you push and pop
navigation controllers,
you get, you know, that same gray bar.
You'd like to be able to
customize all of that stuff too.
So I thought we'd start with sort
of a very basic application as
an example here on the slides.
You might be creating, say,
a control application
for a conference room.
So you'll have things like the
level of the house lights or the
talk progress or the voltage that
we've got wired up to the chairs.
Yeah, you thought those power
strips are all for you guys,
right?
And, you know,
the projector being on or the demo
computers being on and the bar
button items that appear there.
And your designer comes
to you and they say,
you know, I've got a really great idea.
Let's push a different color scheme
through your entire application.
Let's do that.
So we've added tint color to almost
every single control in UIKit.
So if you've got a color scheme
that you want to push through it,
you can do this now.
So this includes things like the
navigation bar and toolbar colors,
the text that's in those buttons,
the tracks for all the different
UI sliders and progress indicators,
the activity view,
UI activity indicator view,
right just to the right
of the talk progress bar.
You can color those now, too.
And you can get a, you know,
you can choose your color scheme.
We do take the tint color that you
give us for all of these things and,
you know, we might massage the color a
little bit one way or the other
depending on what the background
of the control originally was.
But you can get a nice blue look
also just by pushing UI color
blue color all the way through.
You can also do some really terrible,
awful things.
Don't ship this, please.
So, you know, when your designer says,
"Wow, maybe you shouldn't use quite
those colors," they probably
know what they're talking about.
We've also gone through and put
in support for going from this,
which is again our very basic look,
to something more like this.
And that includes image support in
almost every single control in UIKit.
So here is a UI navigation bar with
a different image as its background.
All of the tracks that are
here for the UI slider,
the button has a different color,
but the chair voltage slider there has
a different image for its minimum track.
The talk progress bar has an image.
The buttons all have their own images.
These are all things that
are built in right now.
And the first thing to
talk about here is navbar.
Set background image for bar metrics.
Pre-iOS 5, we've seen some fairly novel
approaches to getting this to work.
We do support this.
It's not obvious.
If you need to do this kind of
thing with a navigation bar,
the way it works pre-iOS
4.0 is you would create your
navigation controller in a nib,
select the navigation bar in that nib,
and set its custom
class to your subclass.
And then when that whole
thing comes up out of the nib,
you'll get your navigation bar in there.
So you don't have to resort to
the method swizzling and the
category smashing to do this.
But in iOS 5.0 now, you just have to call
setBackgroundImage for bar metrics
and we'll take care of it for you.
The bar metrics are just an enum.
UI bar metrics default is the
44-point high UI navigation bar that
you get on the phone in portrait
and on the iPad in all orientations,
right?
The iPad's big enough that we
don't have to shrink that bar.
UI bar metrics landscape phone
is the one where when you rotate
the phone to landscape phone,
we make the navigation bar thinner
because we want to get as much
space as possible for the content
of the navigation controller and not
for the navigation Chrome itself,
right?
So we've also gone ahead and allowed
you to do title text attributes.
So not only do we're putting
images in here for customization,
you're also going to be able to
get your own fonts and colors and
things like that into the nav bar.
And it's not shown in
this particular slide,
but left bar button items
and right bar button items.
These are properties where you can
set an array of bar button items
rather than just one on each side.
And finally, also, Left Item Supplement
Back Button is kind of neat.
As you push and pop view controllers,
the back button,
since you could only have one,
you had pretty much the
back button and that was it.
You can set this property and
as you push view controllers in,
if they have left items,
they will show up to the right
of the back button there.
So you can start putting buttons
up next to the back button and
have those dynamically come and go.
There's not a lot of
space up in the navbar.
You can see that right now.
So this is sort of a
used judiciously feature.
For bar button items,
you can do the same thing.
Set background image
for state bar metrics.
And for the back button,
you can also set the back button
background image for state bar metrics.
So you'll be able to wedge in your
own images for all of these buttons.
So as your designer comes up with
their snow leopard print flavor of
bar button items and they want to
put something specific in there,
you'll be able to actually
accommodate that just by taking the
images in and using them directly.
Marian Goldeen,
our iOS Frameworks resident
mountain biker who puts us all
to shame with her effort in
getting into work every morning,
is going to show you some
of the customizing instances
API that we've added to UIKit.
So, Marian, for the demo.
Thank you, Chris.
And we'll have our demo
showing up here in a minute,
I think.
That looks better.
All right.
Thank you.
So first I'm going to just walk
you around this application,
this demo application,
to get you oriented.
It's a simple application.
It's a faux astronomy application
using images from the Hubble telescope.
And as you see, it's in a tab bar
controller with two tabs.
The first tab is just a
regular old view controller.
We have a toolbar at the top,
and we have the beginnings of our
theme with dark bars and reddish text.
The title is a custom
view bar button item,
which is a label that's been customized.
And if we go over to the
second view controller,
we see that we have a
navigation controller,
and we have white text up there,
which is unfortunate.
And the same thing,
it's got white text in the buttons,
the next button and the back button.
And for the title,
you know on iOS 4 we could do the
same thing that we did in the toolbar,
which is we could take a UI label
and customize it and use it as a
custom view for the title view.
We're a little more stuck
for the button items,
and it's also kind of a pain to do
that for every single view controller.
So let's do it using our
title text attributes.
Now we have to go find our code.
And in application
didFinishLaunchingWithOptions
in the delegate method,
in the delegate, we have--
That's where our navigation
controller is set up,
and it's a good place to set the title
text attributes on our navigation bar.
In this case,
I'm only interested in the text color.
You can set text color, shadow color,
shadow offset, and also the font.
And we need to do the same thing
for the navigation bar button items.
Those are set up in the second
view controller because,
as you recall, the bar button items are
associated with the navigation
item for the view controller.
And I took a shortcut,
and I've only got one
view controller class,
but you could possibly
have more than one.
And to customize the
back bar button item,
we need to make a custom
back bar button item.
This is a template.
We take certain things from it
to construct your back item.
And one of the things we do take from
it are the title text attributes.
And we set them twice because I want one
color for the normal state of the control
And I want a slightly brighter color
because my standard color has a
diminished alpha to give it a sort
of a diminished state because I want
a quiet UI for the highlighted
or pressed state of the control.
And we want to do the same
thing for the next item.
And it's exactly the same thing.
Set title text attributes for state.
And let's take a look at how it looks.
Go over to our navigation bar.
And sure enough, nice and red,
just like we wanted for all of the views.
Well, that takes care of the top bars.
But looking down at the tab bar,
it's blue.
It's not red.
We're OK with the unselected
tab bar item with that gray,
but we want red for the
selected tint color,
and we want red for that
selected text color.
Once again, we can take care of it.
We have to remember
where our instances are.
The tab bar controller is again
set up in the application delegate.
Let's go back to that.
The application did finish launching.
And you can get the tab bar
from the tab bar controller.
And you can set its selected image tint
color to red color or any color you like.
And we'll do our best to
make it look nice for you.
And the tab bar items,
we have one for each view controller.
One for the navigation
controller that's set up here.
Also,
an application did finish launching.
And we're setting the
title text attributes,
this time just once for
the selected control state,
which is the state that the tab
bar item is in when it is selected.
And we need to set the same
thing on the other tab bar item
for the first view controller.
Here in Init with NibName,
where the tab bar item is set up,
is a good place to also set
its title text attributes.
So now let's take a look at that tab bar.
and hooray!
It's red.
Yay!
Yes.
Well, that looks good,
and it's all sort of red.
It actually matches that nice
image of the supernova remnant.
But suppose we have some controls
for scanning the universe,
and we don't want them
to be blue and white,
so let's customize them.
All those controls are set up
in the first view controller.
I should point out to you
that in order to set them up,
I have IB outlets for all of them.
I might want IB outlets for
them for other reasons also,
but I definitely need them
to customize them this way.
And so we set the on tint
color for the scan switch.
We set the color for the spinner.
The progress view,
we can set the progress tint
color and the track tint color.
You'll notice I'm using
the same color for both.
In this case,
we adjusted a little bit so that it'll
actually look a little different.
For the slider,
we're a little more prosaic,
and you set all three colors, the thumb,
the minimum track, the maximum track,
and you just set them up.
Now, the segmented control is
what I'm going to do next,
and tint color works on the
segmented control in the bars,
but we haven't applied it to the
segmented control in Lucentive
View like you saw there.
But what you can do is you can
customize the look of your app controls.
So I'm going to customize its
background images completely,
and so my designer alter ego
created some images that I can
use for the segment background.
And I'm setting it for
the normal control state.
And in this case,
the bar metrics don't apply to
this particular segment of control.
If it were in a navigation
bar on the phone,
it could very well apply.
But since it doesn't apply,
I'm using UI Bar Metrics default.
I also want to set this
for control state selected.
And a moment here,
because Sigma Control is
a little complicated.
It doesn't just have a background.
It also has the divider image.
And the divider image-- in our case,
I'm using the same divider
image in all cases.
No, thank you, Xcode.
All right.
But in a more complicated image,
you might have a case where the divider
image would actually be different
for shadows or whatever purpose,
depending on which side
there was a selected image.
So that's what this
for left segment state,
right segment state
arguments are all about.
In my case,
it's more simple and it doesn't matter,
so they both get UI control state normal.
And similar to the bar button items,
I set the title text attributes.
So let's see how that looks.
Much better,
much more like the rest of the app.
And I feel like, hey,
this is pretty good.
It's all black and red.
I'm good to go.
And then my designer says, well,
actually,
those images for the segmented control,
they're all flat.
And I want a consistent design
language through this app.
And I want other images.
I don't like this shiny bar.
I don't like this shiny selection
indicator image in the tab bar.
I don't like these shiny buttons.
I don't like these shiny buttons up here.
Here's a bucket of flat artwork.
Please put this into your app.
Why, certainly, say I.
Let's see.
We've got a background
image for the toolbar,
and here we are in our
first view controller,
and it's got an outlet for the toolbar.
And it's actually the same background
image for the navbar and the toolbar.
Now, the toolbar has a special thing,
toolbar position.
Take a moment here.
Toolbars can be at the top
of your app or at the bottom,
particularly on the iPad.
And my artwork doesn't care,
so I have UI toolbar position any.
But of course,
you could also have top or bottom if you
had specific artwork for those positions.
So we have the toolbar,
and we also have some other bars.
We have a navigation
bar background image.
Again, the bar metrics.
And we have a tab bar background image.
No bar metrics for the tab bar
because it's the same size.
And we have the tab bar
selection indicator image.
And there was only a couple more,
the back button and the next button.
So let's take care of those.
And here's where we got
the title text attributes.
Notice with the back item,
we have set back button background image.
And we're doing a normal
state and a pressed state.
And for the next item,
we have background image,
just not back button background image,
but just background image.
And that should complete our
customization of this application.
And there you go.
You see the flat images.
We still have our nice red colors.
And perhaps you notice the--
can you see it well enough,
the flat image down there around the tab?
And also, maybe you can see these
better up here at the top.
And you see we have different
ones for the pressed states.
And now we have-- thank you.
This is kind of an overview
of the customization.
It is not at all a complete list of
the customization methods that we have.
Please feel free to read the headers and
look for things that you might want to
do because it's very likely to be there.
But we have more in store for you,
so I'd like Chris to come back and give
us some more talking with some slides.
We were going to do the
reading header thing,
but I heard Craig did
that joke on Monday,
so I'm not going to do that here.
Quick show of hands,
how many of you completely lost
track of where Marian was in the
view controller stack customizing
all of those various UI elements?
Excellent.
Don't feel bad.
I get lost with it, too.
It turns out that if we're going to write
customization API to customize the entire
look of an application all at once,
it's really hard.
If you've used other
frameworks that do this kind of
customization for look and feel,
there's lots of different
axes you can control.
There are lots of sort of out-of-band
things that you call in order to get that
custom look in terms of theme files and
things like that into an application.
We wanted to try and make this
as easy as possible because it
also turns out that using those
customization APIs after you've
built all of those things up is hard.
So it's hard for us to write.
It's hard for you guys to use.
So we wanted to do...
We wanted to do three things.
We wanted to make this API as
easy as possible to provide a
consistent look in your applications,
and that look should support
your application features.
And we looked at what we were doing
with all of the different customization
in UIKit on a per-class basis and
tried to work all of this out,
and it was really difficult.
So we went back and looked at how
we configure individual instances.
So this is a UI slider.
You saw Marian's demo.
Where she was customizing it by
calling set minimum track tint color,
and you pass it a color,
and we go ahead and
color that slider red.
But if you want to do this for every
single slider in your application,
well, there are a couple of different
ways we could have approached it.
You could wrap this method in a useR
theme for every single different
customization for your classes.
Or we went ahead and introduced this idea
of what's called the Appearance Proxy.
So you will send the appearance
message to the UISlider class.
That gives you back a proxy object that's
going to stand in for all of the future
customizations you're going to do for,
in this case, a UISlider.
You'll send that object the
setMinimumTrack tint color,
and every UISlider you create
in your application now
will have that tint color.
So if you know how to
customize one instance,
a specific instance of a control,
you now know how to customize
every single one of them.
Again,
this is called the Appearance Proxy.
If you've done any of the desktop
programming on the AppKit,
they have a similar concept
with the Animator Proxy.
You load up all the different
animations you want.
And when you commit the animations,
the proxy plays those back.
That's what this is basically doing here,
but it's for appearance and for
the customizations we've put.
And all of these methods for like
set minimum track tint color,
they all participate in this system.
The header is uiappearance.h.
We've defined a single protocol
called the UIAppearanceProtocol,
and we've applied this to
UIView and a few other classes.
So anything that conforms
to the UIAppearanceProtocol,
you can send the
AppearanceClass method to.
That gives you the proxy object to send
all of your different customizations.
And we've also gone through and
tagged the methods that are currently
supported with UIAppearanceSelector.
And this is just a little pound
to find that tells you which
things we've worked on and tested
out to make sure that they work.
We're sprinkling this through
additional methods as we go,
so this will start appearing
in more and more places.
But please do try all of
these things out for that.
And this system is going to let
us do something a lot cleaner than
what Marian was showing you earlier.
And so she's going to show you more
about AppearanceProxy basics and
how to configure your application.
Thank you.
So for this demo,
I'm going to pretty much go through that
app that I just went through before,
and this time I'm going to
do all the customizations
using the Appearance Proxy.
I've actually adjusted the app just
a little bit and put two navigation
controllers where I haven't set
the bar style yet because I'm
going to set them both at once.
And I just want to take a minute
and look at the pictures so you can
see there's some neat-o pictures.
Great website, hubblesite.org.
Anyway...
So let's get started and customize
it using the Appearance Proxy.
So in this case,
I'm going to just stay inside one method.
In the application delegate,
the application did
finish launching method.
And as I recall, I started with the bars,
the navigation bars.
So let's set the bar style on
the navigation bar appearance.
Similarly,
we'll set the title text attributes.
I'm going to take care of doing
the bar customization that I did at
the beginning of the demo before.
And we need to set--
The tab bar selected image tint color.
And I remember the bar button items.
They had title text attributes.
Those title text attributes on the
UI bar button item appearance will be
applied to all the bar button items,
including the back button.
And so we've got the navigation bar,
the tab bar,
and the title text attributes.
And, ah, we needed the tab bar item
title text attributes.
So once again,
you notice it particularly simplifies for
those bar items in this particular demo.
Let's take a look.
And there we go.
We have our selected image tint colors,
and our navigation bar
has been customized.
After we did that,
we took care of these controls.
So let's take care of these controls.
In this case,
we don't need any outlets for this,
although, like I said,
we might need them for something else.
So we want our switches to
have that on tint color.
We want our activity indicator
views to have a color.
Take care of the progress view.
The slider.
And we can do the background images and
such on the segmented control as well.
So here we go,
background image for normal
state and selected state,
the divider image,
and the title text attributes.
So this should take care of our controls.
And there we go, all nice and red.
And of course, last but not least was the
flat images for the bars.
Let's take care of those.
The navigation bar.
The toolbar.
Counting on my fingers here.
The tab bar.
So the tab bar has both the background
image and the selection indicator image.
That belongs to the tab bar.
And then we have the background
image for UI bar button items.
So this is the square image.
And then we have--
The back button background
image for UI bar button item,
and that's the pointing image.
That covers it.
I don't see any more gray code in there,
so I think I got it all.
And yep, we've got all of our flat
images all in one place.
And the customization will
continue if I change the app.
I don't have to worry about
putting additional instance calls
on every new instance that I add.
And that's a simple way to
use the Appearance Proxy,
but there's a more
complicated way to use it,
too.
And Chris has some slides to help
you get acquainted with that.
So there are a lot of
really slick things here.
But the appearance proxy lets you
consolidate the repeated code of
taking an instance and configuring it,
and taking an instance
and configuring it,
and put all of that logic in
one place so you can do it once.
And you can break these up.
So for instance,
if you know that you're never
going to load a particular
control until much later,
you can call it just before you load
that control and then go ahead and do it.
So if there are places where
you're worried about performance
or you just don't want to do
all of that right in one place,
you can do it on an on-demand basis.
It starts taking effect right
after you call these things.
So your designer comes along and says,
hey, you know what?
We've got these buttons.
And I want them to have the
default look all the time,
but I want them to have a different
look only when they're contained
in this other view controller.
And in this case,
I'm going to put a button
into a navigation controller,
and we want that to always
have the red text color if it's
in a navigation controller,
but we want the default
color at all other times.
So the only other method in the
Appearance Proxy protocol is
Appearance When Contained In.
And this is a way that you can do
fine-grain control over how the
appearance of your app changes depending
on what views and view controllers
these things are all contained in.
It takes a nil-terminated
list of classes,
and those classes will conform to
the UIAppearanceContainer class.
And this is an empty protocol
that we use to tag the views and
view controllers that participate
in this containment system.
And it's as simple to use as
the Appearance Proxy by default.
So here is the button code to
illustrate the concept that I just
showed you in graphics there.
UIButtonAppearanceWhenContainedInUINav
igationControllerClass,
setTitleColor,
red color for control state,
UI control state normal.
So again, the same configuration API for
an instance gets applied
to this containment system.
And then when we go ahead and actually
put that button into the nav controller,
it changes color.
You can do more complicated things.
Like you can set the appearance
when contained in a custom view
controller in another view controller.
So you can set up hierarchies
for your appearance changes.
So in this case,
this is an appearance proxy being
asked for that when the button
is in a custom view controller,
which is itself inside
a navigation controller,
that should change.
So here's the button with a
bare custom view controller.
into it, nothing happens.
Put that whole thing into
a UI navigation controller,
and the title color turns red.
So when your designer says, well,
I want just this corner of the
application to look different,
you'll be able to do that.
You know they're thinking about it.
You know they're out there
in front of Photoshop going,
oh, you know what we could do?
So the way to read this is
almost the way I read it before,
which is it helps if you put the
when contained in between each of
the classes that you're passing in.
So you would read this as the button's
appearance when contained in a
custom view controller when contained
in a UI navigation controller.
It sounds a lot like most of our
selectors when you read it out,
but it's very descriptive and it'll
help you get the containment idea.
This works based on the outermost
containment for composition.
So if you have some competing
containers where you might have A,
B, and C, and if B and C are further out,
the outermost containment
winds up winning.
It'll take some experimentation.
It's worth opening up Xcode and creating
a couple of different view controllers
and putting them inside of each other
to see exactly how this stuff plays out,
but we'll have some
documentation for this as well.
Marian's going to show you now
about how to use containment to
tweak the look of your application
in different circumstances.
Well, my Scanning the Universe app
has had an upgrade.
And now when I bring up my controls,
I get a new little item up here.
I actually want to just
call this out here.
That's a plain toolbar,
but an item that's been tinted.
It's not white.
Just take note.
So there's our control panel.
You notice we're getting those red
looks from the Appearance Proxy,
but our designers have given us
an Emerald City look to apply
only in these control panels.
And we've got three of them for Auriga,
Bootes, and Cygnus.
And they all have to be green.
The view for this view controller
is a controls view class.
So this is a trivial subclass of UIView,
and I'm going to use
it for my containment.
So here's our back in the application
did finish launching method in the
Appearance Containment App Delegate.
We have all that stuff
from the previous demo.
And now we have our
contained appearances.
And the first one,
this is just the plain old Appearance
Proxy so that the controls view actually
has a background color that is green.
And the next one, we want our labels.
They've got their own color.
But we want them when contained
in the controls view class.
I want to say a word here,
which is that UILabel is
a pretty general class.
And there are subclasses lying
around where you might be surprised.
So if you just say UILabel
appearance and change some stuff,
you might get some
changes you didn't expect.
So you would proceed with caution and
probably always want to use containment
if you were sending messages to
an appearance proxy for UILabel.
Similarly for UISwitch.
UI slider.
And then UI button here.
You notice I'm setting
a background image.
The particular button I'm using in this
control panel doesn't accept tint color.
Some of our buttons do,
but you can set the background
image on any of them.
I believe that's not new,
but we're sending it to
the Appearance Proxy.
So we have a normal state
and a pressed state,
and then title color.
And let's take a look.
And it's green.
You notice that the red
switch down there stayed red,
and these switches are green.
We're all happy about that,
and then our designer says, "Well,
I want the Bootes View Controller to
be blue because it's the
booties' blue view controller.
Okay.
And you say, "Well,
but you want Auriga and Cygnus
to still be green." They're like,
"Yes."
That content view, the controls view,
is contained in the view controller,
and each of these three view
controllers is their own class,
so we can use the containment
in the Bootes view controller to
control the appearance of that pane.
So we just basically run through
the same thing except with the
different colors and images for
the appearances when contained in
the BoOT's ViewController class.
So in this case, these controls,
even though they are contained
in the controls view,
they are also contained in
the Boötes view controller.
And that's the more external container.
So it's the one that
will rule for these ones.
So let's look at that.
And of course,
the first one that we look at
is the Bootes ViewController,
supposedly.
There we go.
And it's blue.
Hooray.
And as you saw--
and Signes are also green.
And everything's working as planned.
And then our designer has
another idea and says,
the three fates, Clotho, Atropos,
and Lachesis, are much more important
than the three musketeers,
Athos, Porthos, and Eremis,
and they deserve a switch
color all of their very own.
Well, of course, you're like, no problem.
Containment will do it.
And because you were precognitively
designing your demo app,
you've already got your
switches in their own view.
So there's an invisible subview
here containing those switches.
And I've called it
Important Controls View.
And like Controls View,
it's another trivial subclass of UI view
being used purely for containment.
And I say, OK, how about that?
The ones that are in the
Port and View Controller
They're going to be this important color.
And I think I'm going to be good,
but you might be seeing that
other gray text and thinking,
huh.
And so I go and I look.
Did it work?
It did not work.
And the reason it didn't work
is because for this containment,
it's the outermost container that's
ruling when the specificity is the same.
So these switches,
the three fate switches,
are contained in the
important views controller,
important controls view,
but they're also contained
in the controls view,
which is the outermost,
and so that appearance is winning.
So this is one place where
we'd use the specificity.
Because if they are also
contained in something that
contains the controls view,
then we'll be good.
And those three view controllers, Oraiga,
Bootes, and Cygnus,
are all subclasses of a
common view controller called
a controls view controller.
Say that three times fast.
And so if we extend our containment
so that we want the switch that's
contained in the important controls
view class when it's contained in
a controls view controller class,
we want it to be this important color.
So let's look at this
wonderful importance.
There they are.
They're yellow,
and it's the same for all three panels.
That.
And, of course,
Cygnus is just a repeat of Auriga.
Now, at this point, I could be done.
I've pretty much showed
you the containment.
But I have one little extra thing
that if you've been to What's New in
Cocoa Touch and some other talks,
you might have heard about.
And I just wanted to throw
it in there to remind you,
which is that we have places
all over UIKit now where you
can set background images.
So much everywhere you can set an image,
you can set an animated image.
And that's-- the animated
images is pretty nifty.
A bunch of images,
I don't know if you can read that,
but they're all enumerated,
and I just say I want my Cygnus button
animated image duration of one second,
and I have one for...
One for normal and one for pressed.
And then I can have a
nice pulsing button.
It's kind of fun.
for the Cygnus button.
Okay, so I'm--
I'm really not quite done.
Because you guys are saying, yay,
that button's pulsing.
And I'm saying, oh, no.
Because the center of that
button is going translucent.
So what's that white stuff behind it?
It's supposed to be green behind it.
This one's supposed to be
subtle because it's not pressed.
And that one, when you touch it,
is supposed to be more dramatic.
But it's less,
and there's something blue behind it.
Well, what's going on is I just
set that image on a rounded,
racked button.
And it has its own drawing.
And we're seeing a little
bit of a collision here.
So if you see something like this,
and you want things to
uncollide in your buttons,
it's a good idea to set up your button--
and John Ebrecht set it up as a custom
button because you are customizing it.
And then you won't have to worry
about UIKit drawing getting in
there and fighting with what
you want to have happening.
Okay, and so now it's more subtle.
Actually,
I'm not sure if you can see it very well,
but it is pulsing.
You can see and what I wanted,
where you have a more
vivid pulse on the pressed.
You can see that more,
and we don't have the rounded rect
fighting with the custom drawing.
So I think that's a good overview
of the new stuff we have in store
for the appearance customization.
And Chris has a few more slides
to point out what's going
on behind the scenes a bit.
[Transcript missing]
And it does update in real time.
It happens only at the
hierarchy change point,
right?
So if you're going to be
dynamically changing this stuff,
you'll have to take the view out of
the view hierarchy and put it back
in in order to get it to happen.
So we've spent a bunch of time in pushing
all of these different customization
APIs all the way through UIKit,
but your designer then says, "Hey,
you know what?
I've got this button,
and I want it to have the same color
no matter where it appears in the UI.
Right, so we've got this button.
This app button isn't
making anybody nervous,
is it?
And if I call Customization API on
that particular instance-- remember,
we've got all these other customization
rules going on for buttons.
They're getting tinted.
There's an animated image on the back.
But I'm going to go ahead and call
Set Title Color for Control State on
this particular instance of the button.
Now, when I, you know,
it goes ahead and it's, okay, it's green.
I've updated that color.
Now, when I go ahead and put that
into the navigation controller,
if we think back to the
original containment example,
this has a custom view controller
inside a nav controller.
We're saying any button that
appears in there is going to be red.
Well,
you take this button that you customized
individually and put it in there,
it's not going to be red.
It's going to stay green because we
also keep track of all of the individual
instance customizations you do,
and we keep our hands off them.
So you'll be able to actually say,
for this button only,
ignore all the rules and
make sure it's always green.
So you'll be able to also
customize individual instances.
So we pushed all this stuff
through into the headers.
We've got lots and lots and lots
of customization opportunities now.
So you should be able to get your
custom look into your application
and customize it really easy
using the Appearance Proxy.
We've also provided a really
sophisticated containment model so
that you can tune the appearance
of your application based on
context and the containment
hierarchy of your view controllers.
And we've also put all of the image
stuff in there so you can completely
customize your look and push all of those
images into every single UIKit control.
So we're here in the labs
for the rest of the week.
You can also get more information from
our Application Frameworks Evangelist,
Bill Dudney.
There will be docs in the iOS
Development Center about all
of the appearance stuff that
we've talked about today.
And, you know,
come see us in the labs with all
your questions and your code.
We'd love to talk to you.
Thank you very much.